Playtest: Recorded native application checks on the recovered implementation.
Environment: Linux X11, inherited assigned DISPLAY and XAUTHORITY, Mesa software OpenGL, Java 25.0.3, isolated synthetic offline profiles under target. Browser playtesting does not apply to this Java native application.
Commands actually executed:
python3 deploy/run_regional_playtest.py --display "$DISPLAY"
python3 deploy/run_regional_road_playtest.py --display "$DISPLAY"
Both commands exited 0. These are prior executed checks; this documentation update does not claim a new execution.
Steps: Open the mayor dashboard and Districts. Settle 1,000,000 residents twice. Focus district #1 and inspect a nearby resident. Observe movement and wallet updates, check money conservation, then save/reload. Exercise a region with no food, money or work for 12 simulated seconds. Open the local-only citizen table. In the road workflow, choose dirt and paved 2/3/4 lanes, place roads using endpoints and the direction guide, upgrade dirt, cancel after selecting the first endpoint, and escape the menu. Capture using the production F10 recorder.
Expected: 2,000,000 regional residents with 64 nearby agents; individual movement and wallets; conserved money and equal save/reload state; starvation reaches hunger=0 without negative food or money; 12 local named citizens remain searchable. Roads retain distinct widths and lane choices; cancel changes neither world nor road spending; escape returns to inspect.
Observed: All assertions passed. Regional counts were 2,000,000 and 64; save/reload and money checks passed. After 12 simulated seconds the starvation case had hunger=0, food=0 and money=0. The local-only table retained 12 named citizens. Dirt and paved 2/3/4 lanes, guide, widths, upgrade, cancel and escape checks passed. Regional run rendered 57 frames. Fresh screenshots were inspected. All 11 regional video frames and 132 road video frames decoded successfully.
Evidence: regional-scale-districts.png, regional-scale-nearby.png, regional-scale-starvation-edge.png, regional-scale-local-regression.png, regional-scale-main.mp4, regional-road-surfaces.png and regional-road-main.mp4. Command details and hashes are in regional-scale-tests.json. Publication is reserved to the controller.
