Voxel One native iPhone client

This is a UIKit/SceneKit app, rendered natively through Apple's graphics stack.
It does not open the desktop game in Safari or stream desktop screenshots.
The first client supports offline whole-block sandbox building and online
Voxel One sandbox / Voxel City One through the Java mobile gateway.

Phone controls

Hold the four direction buttons to walk. Drag the world to look. Jump, Break
and Place use the selected hotbar stack. Scroll the hotbar to reach all nine
slots. Bag swaps a stack into the selected hotbar slot. Pause stops local input;
online simulation keeps running. Menu signs out of online play.

Offline sandbox starts from Terrain.DEFAULT_SEED, generator version 3, exported
by the actual Java Terrain and WorldVoxels code. The local area has 49 by 49
columns. It includes a starter inventory. Breaking collects a whole block into
the local inventory; placing consumes one. Saves are atomic, live in the app's
Application Support directory, and resume on cold launch. New world asks before
replacing that save. Saves are separate from Java offline-city.dat / offline.dat;
this release does not import desktop saves or simulate an offline city.

Online sandbox keeps the existing game server's inventory, health, item drops,
authentication, multiplayer edits and crafting rules. The initial phone UI exposes
walking, jumping, whole-block edits, hotbar and inventory swaps. The desktop model
editor, fractional-block tools, mounts, crafting UI and specialized transport or
finance tools are not exposed by this first phone UI. Subdivided/model cells use a
whole-block approximation for display/collision; use the desktop client to edit
those structures precisely.

Online city starts in an isometric planning view. Plan/Walk switches views.
Two fingers pan; pinch zooms. Tool selects Inspect, Dirt road, Residential,
Commercial, Industrial or Agricultural. Tap ground for corners, or Point enters
a precise X/Z grid coordinate. Undo removes the latest corner. Confirm sends the
plan to the actual city server. Roads need two endpoints; zones need at least
three convex corners. The server checks costs, zones, players and bounds.
Clock, treasury, roads, zone overlays, buildings and citizens come from actual
CityFrame snapshots. Inspect near a citizen shows their activity, hunger and cash.
The city, roads and accounts are shared with desktop users; no phone balance or
population is synthesized. Planning focus does not teleport the player's avatar.

Build on a Mac

Requires Xcode with an installed iPhone Simulator runtime and Java 17+/Maven
for the gateway's isolated integration tests. No Apple account is needed for
simulator builds. The controller's exact-source check runs:

  bash ios/check-simulator.sh SIMULATOR_UDID ABSOLUTE_EVIDENCE_DIRECTORY SOURCE_HEAD

The contract is documented in tools/ios/README.md. The script checks the exact
Git head and clean tracked source, starts two fresh Java game worlds with
in-memory synthetic accounts, generates an unsigned Xcode project in ios/build,
builds the actual app, installs it and runs XCTest using normal UIKit controls.
No source is rewritten while testing. Failed builds return sanitized compiler
or assertion diagnostics; raw logs, TLS keys and account state stay out of evidence.

For manual simulator play:

  python3 ios/make-project.py
  open ios/build/VoxelOne.xcodeproj

Choose the VoxelOne scheme and an iPhone Simulator. Run the app and choose New
offline sandbox. For a physical phone, use your own Mac and Apple account/team,
change the app target's CODE_SIGNING_ALLOWED to YES and configure Signing &
Capabilities before building to your connected iPhone. TestFlight/App Store
publication and physical-device signing are separate steps; this check does not
publish, sign for distribution, or prove physical-device performance.

Online service

Run the gateway alongside existing game servers. It connects to those servers
as ordinary clients using administrator-supplied SHA-256 certificate fingerprints.
Use the full client JAR on its classpath (the main class is explicitly the gateway;
no graphical window is opened):

  java -cp target/voxel-one-1.0-SNAPSHOT-client.jar dev.jayms.net.mobile.MobileGateway \
    --server 127.0.0.1 --sandbox-port 25565 --city-port 25566 \
    --sandbox-pin PUBLIC_SANDBOX_CERTIFICATE_FINGERPRINT \
    --city-pin PUBLIC_CITY_CERTIFICATE_FINGERPRINT --listen-port 25567

The gateway binds loopback only. Provide a normal, trusted HTTPS reverse proxy
for /mobile/v1/ to that loopback port before using it from a phone. Keep the proxy
from logging request bodies or Authorization headers. This feature does not deploy
a proxy or alter the current live services. Enter that HTTPS origin in the native
app, choose Sandbox or City, then sign in or create an account on that game server.
The phone uses standard system TLS trust. HTTP is accepted only for localhost
simulator fixtures; remote cleartext URLs are rejected by the app.

The gateway never reads an account database. Passwords are forwarded only through
the existing pinned-TLS login path, and no credentials are retained by the app.
Bearers are memory-only, expire after 15 idle minutes and are revoked on logout.
There are at most 32 sessions and 4 concurrent logins. Sign-in attempts are capped
at 10 per minute per backend peer address; a loopback reverse proxy shares that
limit. JSON requests are bounded to 8 KiB; snapshots use the player's surrounding
33 by 33 columns and stream as the player or planning focus moves. Action replies
wait for server receipts; a timed-out action is not automatically retried.

Local checks

  mkdir -p target/mobile-test-tmp
  mvn -q -DargLine="-Djava.io.tmpdir=$PWD/target/mobile-test-tmp" \
    -Dtest=MobileGatewayTest,MultiplayerTest,CityMultiplayerTest,FractionalWorldTest test
  python3 deploy/run_mobile_gateway_smoke.py --report dashboard/evidence/mobile-gateway-playtest.json
  python3 -m unittest discover -s tools/ios -p 'test_*.py' -v
  bash -n ios/check-simulator.sh

The Python tools/ios tests mock Apple tools; they do not prove a native app ran.
The Java/CLI checks exercise actual game servers and the gateway, not iPhone touch
controls. Native acceptance requires the controller's Mac run and inspection of
its exact-source results, screenshots and any video. Physical iPhone signing,
battery, GPU and thermal performance remain untested by Simulator.

To regenerate the bundled starter terrain intentionally before committing source:

  mvn -q -DskipTests compile
  java -cp target/classes dev.jayms.net.mobile.MobileSnapshot ios/Resources/sandbox.json
